# sfb1288-E06-swissness

v.1.0

This file contains guidelines on how to annotate the output table of our main project. **The first part of the table contains columns with data automatically identified by the algorithm as well as utilitary annotations.**

- SentenceID: Automatically generated, increasing number. Used to refer to the sentence internally.

- Sentence: Automatically generated by sentencizing the input text. Can be manually corrected.

- delete: Either defaults to 0=keep or manually set to 1=delete. Used to remove duplicate/wrong/empty lines to keep the dataset clean.

- CompID: Defaults to NONE, or a number. The number used to identify single- and multi-sentence comparisons. E.g., a single sentence tagged with a CompID of 123 indicates that it is the 123rd comparison in the text, whereas three lines tagged with 52 indicates that they all three belong to the 52nd ›comparison-cluster‹ in the text, sharing the same features.

- triggeredByTriggerword: Automatically generated. Either YES or NO, based on whether the algorithm found a word indicating comparison from the full list of triggerwords.

- triggerWord: Automatically generated. Contains the word from the list of triggerwords found in the sentence (author name, vocabulary). Can be used to confirm if a comparison has been found due to the correct reasons.

- correct: defaults to YES, but can be changed to FP if the algorithm triggered a false positive, FN for a false negative. Used to later on evaluate the accuracy of the identifications.

- spatialCountryShort: defaults to NONE, but, if a spatial entity has been found, contains the associated country shortcut such as CHE, DE, FR, etc. Sourced from the various input dictionaries containing authors, cities, countries.

- authorSurname: defaults to NONE or a name. Identical to the value of triggerWord if an authors name was the triggerWord. Sourced from the various input dictionaries containing authors.

- authorFullame: defaults to NONE or a name. Contains the full name of the identified author to verify if the correct person has been found. Sourced from the various input dictionaries containing authors.

- spatialCity: defaults to NONE or a name. Contains the name of the identified city to verify if the correct city has been found. Sourced from the various input dictionaries containing city and country names.

- spatialCountry: defaults to NONE or a name. Contains the name of the identified country to verify if the correct country has been found. Sourced from the various input dictionaries containing city and country names.

- adjComparativeSuperlative: defaults to NONE or a word. Contains the adjective identified in its comparative or superlative form. Sourced from the various input dictionaries containing adjectives.

- comment: defaults to NONE, but can be filled with comments regarding the sentence, process, etc.


**The second part of the table applies our taxonomy of textual practices of comparing, based on the CRCs system (see Epple et al 2020, 11-17) and the INF-projects tagset as well as our own exploration and reconfiguration. This part is filled manually by our annotators, but could later on also be prefilled by the algorithm based on certain features attributed to the identified vocabulary.**

- compCOMPARATUM_S_Entity: defaults to NONE. Used to annotate the general nation, community, person that is the first comparatum in the comparison if the comparison refers to Switzerland (Schweiz, Zürich, Romandie, Haller, …). Important: in the case of our project, if the sentence talks about Switzerland, it is always the first comparatum S.

- compCOMPARATUM_S_Level: defaults to NONE. Used to annotate on which ›level‹ of the Entity the comparison is aimed, if the comparison refers to Switzerland: do the actors compare the beautiful landscape of the Romandie, or Switzerlands progressive government, or a certain text or author from Zürich? Levels currently identified by explorative analysis are

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;country

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;author

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;city

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;government

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;people

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;landscape

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;literature

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;science

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;text

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;community

- compCOMPARATUM_[A...X]_Entity: used for the first, second, third, ... comparatum that is not Switzerland (Great Britain, Bavaria, Paris, Thomas Bernhard, …). If there are more than two comparata used in a certain comparison, those can be added as columns at the end of the table in similar fashion.

- compCOMPARATUM_[A...X]_Level: used for the second, third, … comparatum that is not Switzerland. If there are more than two comparata used in a certain comparison, those can be added as columns at the end of the table in similar fashion.

- compDIMENSION: defaults to NONE, can be filled with different values that align with the two types of explicitness proposed by the CRC (see Epple et al 2020, 12-13; Davy et al 2019, 17-18) as well as a third one for more abstract comparisons.
1_spatial: for concrete or metaphorical comparisons using spatial markers (different States, links vs rechts, Oberschicht vs Unterschicht)
2_temporal: for comparisons that employ temporal markers (früher vs später, heute vs damals, seasons, ...)
3_concept: additional category for comparisons that employ neither spatial nor temporal markers (such as when comparing ideologies, poetics, etc that are not directly associated with a certain point in space or time or a marker of temporality/spatiality)
- compTERTIUM: defaults to NONE. Can be freely filled by the annotators with the tertia used/created to compare two comparata. Tertia currently identified by explorative analysis are

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;age,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;autonomy,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;beauty,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;centrality,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;complexity,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;creativity,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;diversity,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;greatness,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;language,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;mentality,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;relevance,

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;size.

- compRELATION: defaults to NONE, can be filled with the value most fitting to the relation expressed in the statement. Important: in the case of our project, if the sentence talks about Switzerland, it is always the first comparatum (comparatum S). Can often be derived from adjComparative or adjSuperlative.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1_S most

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2_S more than X

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3_neutral

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4_S similar to X

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5_S less than X

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6_S least

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;7_incomparable

- compVALUATION: defaults to NONE. Similar to Relation, but used if the sentence contains an explicit valuation. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1_S best

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2_S better than X

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3_neutral

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4_S similar to X

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5_S worse than X

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6_S worst

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;7_incomparable

- compTEMPORALITY: defaults to NONE. the temporal range that might be implied in a comparison: Switzerland might be depicted as the most progressive country forever, or german authors as the currently least creative writers, and so on.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1_always

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2_future

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3_present

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4_sometimes

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5_past

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6_never

- compEXPLICITNESS: defaults to NONE. Can be filled with different values that align with the five grades of explicitness proposed by the CRC (see Davy et al 2019, 15-16) as well as a sixth additional one for metaphorical, symbolic, etc comparisons we found necessary.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;1_stated: for comparisons in which actors explicitly state that they are comparing (›I compare A to B‹)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;2_marked: for comparisons that use language that indicates a comparison (›A is bigger than B‹)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;3_juxtaposed: for sentences in which the comparison is implied by the juxtaposition of different statements (›here‹ vs ›there‹, ›now‹ vs. ›back then‹)

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;4_context: for sentences that do not use any language evoking comparison in the reader, but that might be considered as such due to their context.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5_zero: for statements about comparata, tertia, etc. that may appear random and without context, but due to their positioning against each other might still be interpreted as part of a comparison by the reader.

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;6_meta: an additional category used for statements about a comparatum that might evoke comparison via/on a metaphorical, symbolical, allegorical level.
